What is version control system
-------------------------------

You can think of a version control system as a kind of database. It lets you save a snapshot of the complete project at ay point in time.

Every change made ri the project files is tracked along with 

> Who made the changes 
> Why the change was made. (references to problems fixed or features added in the change.)

Later when it is required to take a look at an older snapshot / version VCS shows how exactly it different from the previous one.


Version control System  are tools that help teams and track changes in code over time.


Why version control system is needed
------------------------------------

1) Collaboration
If the developers work on a same project from different regions, it will be hard for them to collaborate without the version control system.

2) Storing Version
Managing multiple version of a project in your disk can be challenging as it requires storing and organizing a potentially large amount of data.

3) Restoring Previous Version
Version control system offer the ability to roll back to a previous version if needed. If a mistake or issue is introduced, developer can revert to a known working state of the project.

4) BackUp
In case system or the disk of the user breaks down and there is no backup all the files will be lost hence version control system should be used.

The type of version control system
1. Local VCS
2. Centralized VCS
3. Distributed VCS (to be used)

GIT

What is GIT
Git is the distributed VCS

> Git is the distributed version control system widely used id software development

> It allows multiple developers ti work collaboratively on a project

> Can efficiently manage and track changes to the source code.

How Git works
Git stores its data in a series of snapshots of a miniature filesystem. Every time you commit a change or save your project state, Git takes a snapshot os all your files at that moment and stores a reference to that snapshot.

A git project resides in three sections
1) The working directory - The single checkout of one version of the project.

2) The Staging Area - An index that stores information about what the next commit will contain.

3) The Git Repository - Th e place where Git stores the metadata and object database for project.

What is GitHub
----------------
GitHub is a web-based hosting service and platform that utilizes the Git version control system.

